Migrate linear solver control (#362)
lethe-cfd/lethe: doc/source/parameters/cfd/linear_solver_control.rst

Linear Solver Control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> In these subsections, the control options of linear solvers are specified. These control options may include solution method, maximum number of iterations, tolerance, residual precision and preconditioner information. The default values for these parameters are given in the text box below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this subsection, the control options of linear solvers are specified. These control options may include solution method, maximum number of iterations, tolerance, residual precision and preconditioner information. The default values for these parameters are given in the text box below.
```

	  # other AMG solver parameters
	  #---------------------------------------------------
	  # AMG aggregation threshold
	  set amg aggregation threshold = 1e-14

	  # AMG number of cycles
	  set amg n cycles              = 1

	  # AMG w cycling. If this is set to true, W cycling is used. Otherwise, V cycling is used.
	  set amg w cycles              = false

	  # AMG smoother sweeps
	  set amg smoother sweeps       = 2

	  # amg smoother overlap
	  set amg smoother overlap      = 1
	end

* The ``method`` parameter enables to choose an iterative solver for the linear system of equations. Lethe currently supports these core solution strategies:
	* ``gmres`` (default parameter value), a GMRES iterative solver with ILU preconditioning.
	* ``amg``, a GMRES iterative solver with AMG preconditioning and an ILU coarsener and smoother.
	* ``bicgstab``, a BICGSTAB iterative solver with ILU preconditioning.
	* ``direct``, a direct solver using `TrilinosWrappers::SolverDirect <https://www.dealii.org/current/doxygen/deal.II/classTrilinosWrappers_1_1SolverDirect.html>`_. 

	.. tip:: 
		On coarse meshes, the ``gmres``/``bicgstab`` solver with ILU preconditioning is more efficient. 

> 		As the number of mesh elements increase, the ``amg`` solver is the most efficient. Generally, at 1M elements, the ``amg`` solver always outperforms the ``gmres`` or ``bicgstab`` for 2D steady-state problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		As the number of mesh elements increase, the ``amg`` solver is the most efficient. Generally, at 1M elements, the ``amg`` solver generally outperforms the ``gmres`` or ``bicgstab`` for 2D and 3D steady-state problems. For transient problem, this is much more problem dependent. When the CFL is relatively low, it is generally preferable to use the ``gmres`` solver with a low fill level (e.g. 0) even when the mesh is very large (>10M cells). This is because the transient version of the system of equation is much easier to solve. At large CFL conditions (>10) and/or very large mesh, it may become preferable to transition to the ``amg`` solver. Be aware that the setup of the AMG preconditioner is very expensive and does not scale linearly with the size of the matrix. As such, it is generally preferable to minimize the number of assembly of such preconditioner. This can be achieved by using the ``inexact newton``` (see :doc:`non-linear_solver_control`)
```

		
		The use of ``direct`` solver should be avoided for 3D problems.

* The ``verbosity`` option enables the display of the residual at each non-linear iteration, to monitor the progress of the linear iterations.

.. note::
	Example of a ``set verbosity = verbose`` output:

	.. code-block:: text

		-Tolerance of iterative solver is : 0.0429541
		-Iterative solver took : 11 steps 
		-Tolerance of iterative solver is : 3.62082e-05
		-Iterative solver took : 16 steps 
		-Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1.05775e-08
		-Iterative solver took : 17 steps 
		-Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1.00205e-12
		-Iterative solver took : 16 steps 
		-Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1e-13
		-Iterative solver took : 5 steps 
		-Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1e-13
		-Iterative solver took : 0 steps 

* The ``minimum residual`` for the linear solver.

* The ``relative residual`` for the linear solver.
.. tip::

> 	A good rule of thumb is to set the linear solver ``minimum residual`` at least :math:`10` times (preferably :math:`100` times) smaller than the `Non-linear solver <https://lethe-cfd.github.io/lethe/parameters/cfd/non-linear_solver_control.html>`_ ``tolerance`` parameter, and keep the relative residual reasonable, for instance ``set relative residual = 1e-3``. To lower the computational cost for more complex simulations, it can be lowered to ``set relative residual = 1e-4``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	A good rule of thumb is to set the linear solver ``minimum residual`` at least :math:`10` times (preferably :math:`100` times) smaller than the `Non-linear solver <https://lethe-cfd.github.io/lethe/parameters/cfd/non-linear_solver_control.html>`_ ``tolerance`` parameter, and keep the relative residual reasonable, for instance ``set relative residual = 1e-3``. To lower the computational cost for more complex simulations, it can be lowered to ``set relative residual = 1e-4``.
```

Can you use the :doc: command to refer to the documentation instead of an URL? This way this works on a local docuementation.

Author: sure! I did not know this command, thank you for the suggestion, this will be cleaner indeed ;)

	.. tip:: 
		On coarse meshes, the ``gmres``/``bicgstab`` solver with ILU preconditioning is more efficient. 

		As the number of mesh elements increase, the ``amg`` solver is the most efficient. Generally, at 1M elements, the ``amg`` solver always outperforms the ``gmres`` or ``bicgstab`` for 2D steady-state problems.
		
		The use of ``direct`` solver should be avoided for 3D problems.

* The ``verbosity`` option enables the display of the residual at each non-linear iteration, to monitor the progress of the linear iterations.

.. note::
	Example of a ``set verbosity = verbose`` output:

	.. code-block:: text

		-Tolerance of iterative solver is : 0.0429541
		-Iterative solver took : 11 steps 
		-Tolerance of iterative solver is : 3.62082e-05
		-Iterative solver took : 16 steps 
		-Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1.05775e-08
		-Iterative solver took : 17 steps 
		-Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1.00205e-12
		-Iterative solver took : 16 steps 
		-Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1e-13
		-Iterative solver took : 5 steps 
		-Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1e-13
		-Iterative solver took : 0 steps 

> * The ``minimum residual`` parameter sets the value that the tolerance of the iterative solver should reach to proceed to the next iteration.

Reviewer: This is not true. The residual to proceed onto the next iteration is the largest value between:
max (relative_residual * initial_residual , minimum_residual)
We set both a relative tolerance and an absolute tolerance. Otherwise we would solve the system very nicely for no reasons at all.

> * The ``minimum residual`` parameter sets the value that the tolerance of the iterative solver should reach to proceed to the next iteration.

Author: The `max (relative_residual * initial_residual , minimum_residual)` sets the tolerance of iterative solver for this linear iteration (taking a given number of steps), but in the end we want the iterative solver to reach a tolerance that is below the `minimum_residual`, before proceeding to the next transient iteration, no?

Is this a matter of terminology between a linear solver iterative step (as in `Iterative solver took : 12 steps`), linear solver iteration (number of lines in the output), and simulation iteration(`Transient iteration` for a transient scheme)?

For instance, here I set my minimum residual to 1e-13, and we go to the next transient iteration only once the solver went all the way under this value:

<pre><code>
*****************************************************************
Transient iteration : 1        Time : 0.05     Time step : 0.05     CFL : 0       
*****************************************************************
  -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 0.0429541
  -Iterative solver took : 7 steps 
  -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 3.71444e-05
  -Iterative solver took : 10 steps 
  -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1.14721e-08
  -Iterative solver took : 12 steps 
  -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1.18663e-12
  -Iterative solver took : 12 steps 
  -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1e-13
  -Iterative solver took : 3 steps 
  -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1e-13
  -Iterative solver took : 0 steps 

*****************************************************************
Transient iteration : 2        Time : 0.1      Time step : 0.05     CFL : 0.715486
*****************************************************************
  -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 0.00406999
  -Iterative solver took : 8 steps 
  -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 3.64636e-06
  -Iterative solver took : 10 steps 
  -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 6.38355e-10
  -Iterative solver took : 11 steps 
  -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1.15663e-13
  -Iterative solver took : 12 steps 
  -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1e-13
  -Iterative solver took : 0 steps 
</code></pre>

> * The ``minimum residual`` parameter sets the value that the tolerance of the iterative solver should reach to proceed to the next iteration.

Reviewer: That is because your non-linear solver tolerance is low.
For example, if

> The `max (relative_residual * initial_residual , minimum_residual)` sets the tolerance of iterative solver for this linear iteration (taking a given number of steps), but in the end we want the iterative solver to reach a tolerance that is below the `minimum_residual`, before proceeding to the next transient iteration, no?

No this  is not correct. What controls if you proceed to the next iteration is the non-linear tolerance. If you set a non-linear solver tolerance of 1e-6 and a linear solver tolerance of 1e-13, with a relative tolerance of say 1e-3, you will never reach the tolerance of your iterative solver. The thing that decides if you move to the next iteration is always the non-linear solver tolerance. E.g. once your non-linear equation has been solved satisfactorily, you move on. The idea with the linear solver tolerance is that you don't want to solve your linear system of equations too acurately if you don't need to.

> 
> Is this a matter of terminology between a linear solver iterative step (as in `Iterative solver took : 12 steps`), linear solver iteration (number of lines in the output), and simulation iteration(`Transient iteration` for a transient scheme)?
> 
> For instance, here I set my minimum residual to 1e-13, and we go to the next transient iteration only once the solver went all the way under this value:
> 
> ```
> 
> *****************************************************************
> Transient iteration : 1        Time : 0.05     Time step : 0.05     CFL : 0       
> *****************************************************************
>   -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 0.0429541
>   -Iterative solver took : 7 steps 
>   -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 3.71444e-05
>   -Iterative solver took : 10 steps 
>   -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1.14721e-08
>   -Iterative solver took : 12 steps 
>   -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1.18663e-12
>   -Iterative solver took : 12 steps 
>   -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1e-13
>   -Iterative solver took : 3 steps 
>   -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1e-13
>   -Iterative solver took : 0 steps 
> 
> *****************************************************************
> Transient iteration : 2        Time : 0.1      Time step : 0.05     CFL : 0.715486
> *****************************************************************
>   -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 0.00406999
>   -Iterative solver took : 8 steps 
>   -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 3.64636e-06
>   -Iterative solver took : 10 steps 
>   -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 6.38355e-10
>   -Iterative solver took : 11 steps 
>   -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1.15663e-13
>   -Iterative solver took : 12 steps 
>   -Tolerance of iterative solver is : 1e-13
>   -Iterative solver took : 0 steps 
> ```

> * The ``minimum residual`` parameter sets the value that the tolerance of the iterative solver should reach to proceed to the next iteration.

Author: Ok, I'll remove that. If you want to add anything else, feel free to offer a formulation! Otherwise we can assume that it will be on the Theory documentation, for interested readers.

.. tip::

> 	The ``minimum residual`` parameter is directly linked to the numerical convergence of the simulation, but also to the computational cost. 

Reviewer: This part is not correct. The iterative solver will solve the linear system of equation until the following tolerance:
max((initial_tolerance) * relative_tolerance , absolute_tolerance) is reached.
What is written above is not correct.

> 	The ``minimum residual`` parameter is directly linked to the numerical convergence of the simulation, but also to the computational cost. 

Author: as said in my initial PR, I did the best with my understanding of what is written in the code (there was not much help about this part in the wiki for me to build on...), and the L2norm weighting is what I assumed from ``const double linear_solver_tolerance = std::max(relative_residual * system_rhs.l2_norm(), absolute_residual);`` in the gls_navier_stokes solver. So for now, I'll just leave the basic information for these parameters.

> 	The ``minimum residual`` parameter is directly linked to the numerical convergence of the simulation, but also to the computational cost. 

Reviewer: @jeannejoachim  it's not your fault don't worry. It's also a very complicated topic this coupling between non-linear solver tolerance and linear solver tolerance. I'll take a last look at the documentation and I think this is good for a merge.

	A good rule of thumb is to set the linear solver ``minimum residual`` to one or two order of magnitude below the `Non-linear solver <https://lethe-cfd.github.io/lethe/parameters/cfd/non-linear_solver_control.html>`_ ``tolerance`` parameter (linear ``minimum residual`` :math:`=` non-linear ``tolerance`` :math:`/10` or :math:`/100`).

> 	Typical values of the ``minimum residual`` for simple simulations can be quite low, for instance ``set minimum residual = 1e-13``. However, such a tolerance can be impossible to attain for more complex simulations, and so the ``minimum residual`` can be increased, for instance ``set minimum residual = 1e-5``.

Reviewer: I would not necessarily add this comment. The best way to control is generally to have a relative residual that is not too small instead. I would just suggest to always set it at least 10x (pref 100x) smaller than the non-linear tolerance and to keep the relative residual reasonable (I find 1e-3 is a good value).

* ``force linear solver continuation`` enables, when set to ``true``, to force the linear solver to continue, even if the ``minimum residual`` is not reached. Only available for ``GMRES`` solver within the ``gls_navier_stokes`` application.
.. warning::
	With this mode on, errors on the linear solver convergence are not thrown. Forcing the solver to continue can be useful for debugging purposes if a given iteration is hard to pass, but use with caution!

* ``max krylov vectors`` sets the maximum number of krylov vectors for ``GMRES`` and ``AMG`` solvers.
.. tip::
	Consider using ``set max krylov vectors = 200`` for complex simulations with convergence issues. 

* ``ilu preconditioner fill``, ``ilu preconditioner absolute tolerance`` and ``ilu preconditioner relative tolerance`` control the ILU preconditioner for ``method`` using ILU preconditioner (``gmres`` and ``bicgstab``). Conversely, ``amg preconditioner ilu fill``, ``amg preconditioner ilu absolute tolerance`` and ``amg preconditioner ilu relative tolerance`` control the ILU coarsener and smoother for the AMG preconditioner.
 
.. tip::

> 	The default values for these parameters are good start values. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	The default values for these parameters are good starting values. 
```

> 	For each iteration of the linear solver (at the beginning of which the tolerance of the iterative solver is computed, as printed if ``set verbosity = verbose``), the chosen solver starts by using the ``preconditioner fill`` given in the parameter file. If for any reason the linear solver would have crashed, it will restart with a fill level increased by 1. This restart process will happen up to a maximum of 20 times, after which it will let the solver crash. 

Reviewer: It does not happen up to 20 times, I think the max is like 3 now?
@Luckabarbeau  you know the exact value?

Author: Oh yes it seems in gls_navier_stokes that now it is 3 max! We will also need to update the comments in the code about this ^^"
